Blog: Add updates about hashicorp vault feature pack (#2394)
wildfly-security/wildfly-elytron: content/blog/2026-02-10-hashicorp-vault-releases-and-expression-resolver.adoc

tags: hashicorp,vault,credential-store,expression,resolver,subsystem,feature-pack,maven-central
synopsis: HashiCorp Vault feature pack and upcoming expression resolver.
author: dvilkola
---

:toc: macro
:toc-title:

toc::[]

== Introduction

The HashiCorp Vault feature pack Alpha releases are now available in Maven Central, and we are working on an expression resolver that will allow using secrets from Vault with WildFly expressions.

=== Provision WildFly with the hashicorp vault feature pack

Use the Galleon provisioning tools with the latest release version of the feature pack. For example:

[source,bash]
----
galleon.sh install org.wildfly.security.hashicorp.vault:hashicorp-vault-feature-pack:${version} \
  --layers=hashicorp-vault \
  --dir=wildfly
----

Substitute the version with the latest release available on Maven Central (e.g. `1.0.0.Alpha3` or newer). This command creates a WildFly server that includes the HashiCorp Vault subsystem in the wildfly directory.

Remember to start WildFly with experimental stability when using the HashiCorp Vault subsystem:

[source,bash]
----
./wildfly/bin/standalone.sh --stability=experimental
----

== Credential store operations

> Once you have added a credential store to the `hashicorp-vault` subsystem, you can add a credential store and use the usualWildFly credential store operations. For example:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Once you have added a credential store to the `hashicorp-vault` subsystem, you can add a credential store and use the usual WildFly credential store operations. For example:
```

[source,bash]
----
$WILDFLY_HOME/bin/jboss-cli.sh --connect

# Add a minimal credential store
/subsystem=hashicorp-vault/credential-store=my-vault:add(
    host-address="http://localhost:8200",
    credential-reference=\{clear-text="myroot"\}
)
----

> Note that above, you can also configure certificates to authenticate to vault by using attributes

Reviewer: Just an idea to make it more clear. On first read I thought the code snippets below relate to this note.

```suggestion
Note: In the command above, you can also configure certificates to authenticate to the vault by using the respective attributes.
```

Or we can use [admonition ](https://docs.asciidoctor.org/asciidoc/latest/syntax-quick-reference/#admonitions) here:

```suggestion
NOTE: In the command above, you can also configure certificates to authenticate to the vault by using the respective attributes.
```

[source,bash]
----
/subsystem=hashicorp-vault/credential-store=my-vault:add-alias(
    alias="secret/myapp.database_password",
    secret-value="supersecret"
)

/subsystem=hashicorp-vault/credential-store=my-vault:remove-alias(
    alias="secret/myapp.database_password"
)

/subsystem=hashicorp-vault/credential-store=my-vault:read-aliases()

----

=== Read aliases operation

> Note that without parameters, the operation read-aliases returns all aliases, but you can optionally specify a Vault path and recursive options to limit the result. To list aliases under a specific path (e.g. `secret/myapp`) with optional recursive traversal, use the `path`, `recursive`, `recursive-depth`, and `max-number-of-aliases` parameters as needed.

Reviewer: We should also think about unifying V/v in `vault`.

```suggestion
Without parameters, the operation `read-aliases` returns all aliases, but you can optionally specify a Vault path and recursive options to limit the result. To list aliases under a specific path (e.g. `secret/myapp`) with optional recursive traversal, use the `path`, `recursive`, `recursive-depth`, and `max-number-of-aliases` parameters as needed.
```

=== Alias format

The credential store maps WildFly aliases to Vault secrets using the format `<vault-path>.<key>`:

* **Example**: The alias `secret/myapp.database_password` maps to the `database_password` key in the `secret/myapp` path in Vault.

The same alias format is used when adding or removing credentials and when referencing the store from other subsystems (e.g. `credential-reference`) or from the upcoming expression resolver.

=== Using the credential store from other subsystems

Once credentials are stored, you can reference them from other WildFly subsystems using the standard `credential-reference` mechanism (e.g. `store="my-vault"` and `alias="secret/myapp.database_password"`).

== Upcoming Hashicorp Vault Expression resolver

We are working on adding an expression resolver that connects to HashiCorp Vault when resolving expressions. This will allow you to use a Vault-backed secret in any management attribute that supports expressions.

=== Planned expression format

The expression format we are working on is +$\{HC_VAULT::storeName:alias\}+

Where:

* `storeName` is the name of a `credential-store` you have configured in the `hashicorp-vault` subsystem.

> * `alias` is the alias (key) of the secret in that credential store

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* `alias` is the alias (key) of the secret in that credential store.
```
